.github/tpl/README.md, before:


# Cookies SDK for Python  ![beta](https://img.shields.io/badge/-beta-blue) <br /> [![Build status](https://badge.buildkite.com/d95aacf67662839a273fd1e9f0bb36f38662cbff92168b6d33.svg)](https://buildkite.com/cookies/python-sdk-python) [![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=CookiesCo_sdk-python&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=CookiesCo_sdk-python) [![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=CookiesCo_sdk-python&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=CookiesCo_sdk-python) [![Reliability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=CookiesCo_sdk-python&metric=reliability_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=CookiesCo_sdk-python) [![Security Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=CookiesCo_sdk-python&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=CookiesCo_sdk-python)

- Library Version: `{VERSION}` (`beta`)
- API Version: `v1` (`stable`)

This repository defines an API client for easy access to [Cookies](https://cookies.co) APIs from Python.

## Installation

From your favorite command line:

```
  pip install cookiesapi
```

## Docs

Guides, access docs, and other resources can be found at the [_Cookies API Console_](https://go.cookies.co/apis). Check there first if you can't find what you're after.

- **API Reference**
  - [Brands](https://py.cookies.dev/controllers/brands)
  - [Stores](https://py.cookies.dev/controllers/stores)
  - [Strains](https://py.cookies.dev/controllers/strains)

- **Class Reference**
  - [API Client](https://py.cookies.dev/client): Info about the main API client facade.
  - [HTTP Request](https://py.cookies.dev/http-request): HTTP request object.
  - [HTTP Response](https://py.cookies.dev/http-response): HTTP response object.
  - [Utility classes](https://py.cookies.dev/utility-classes): General utilities

- **Devops Reports**
  - [Coverage Report](https://py.cookies.dev/docs/reports/coverage)


### Initialize the API Client

**_Note:_** Documentation for the client can be found [here.](/doc/client.md)

The following parameters are configurable for the API Client:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
| `apikey` | `string` | Consumer API key issued by Cookies. |
| `environment` | Environment | The API environment. <br> **Default: `Environment.SANDBOX`** |
| `timeout` | `float` | The value to use for connection timeout. <br> **Default: 60** |
| `max_retries` | `int` | The number of times to retry an endpoint call if it fails. <br> **Default: 0** |
| `backoff_factor` | `float` | A backoff factor to apply between attempts after the second try. <br> **Default: 2** |
| `retry_statuses` | `Array of int` | The http statuses on which retry is to be done. <br> **Default: [408, 413, 429, 500, 502, 503, 504, 521, 522, 524]** |
| `retry_methods` | `Array of string` | The http methods on which retry is to be done. <br> **Default: ['GET', 'PUT']** |

The API client can be initialized as follows:

```python
from cookiesapi import CookiesSDK
from cookiesapi.configuration import Environment

client = CookiesSDK(
    apikey='apikey',
    environment=Environment.SANDBOX
)
```

The API key is also settable via the _environment variable_ `COOKIES_APIKEY`. If both are made available to the SDK at runtime, the constructor parameter wins.


### Obtaining Credentials

Authorization for most Cookies APIs occurs via regular consumer API keys, which authorize the bearer to perform a broad set of operations (i.e. keys are usually API- or consumer-wide). To acquire authorized API credentials, visit the [API Console](https://go.cookies.co/dev).

Sensitive APIs are gated by allowlists and may require additional security measures such as Mutual TLS (_mTLS_), OAuth 2, or asymmetric cryptographic signatures.


### Environments

The SDK can be configured to use a different environment for making API calls. Available environments are:

#### Fields

| Name | Description |
|  --- | --- |
| production | Production data and hosting environment. |
| sandbox | **Default** Testing and development environment. |

Please switch to `production` only for production traffic. Otherwise, the two environments are identical, because they pull from a mirrored (albeit isolated) data source.


## Resources

Resources available for the Python SDK include [guides](https://go.cookies.co/apis), [reference docs](https://py.cookies.dev), and the [API Console](https://go.cookies.co/apis) which sports a full testing harness.

Cookies also supports API access from [Java](https://github.com/CookiesCo/java) or via [plain HTTP](https://go.cookies.co/apis).


## Contributing


## Building the SDK

You must have Python `3 >=3.6, <= 3.9` installed on your system to install and run this SDK. This SDK package depends on other Python packages like nose, jsonpickle etc. These dependencies are defined in the `requirements.txt` file that comes with the SDK.To resolve these dependencies, you can use the PIP Dependency manager. Install it by following steps at [https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/).

Python and PIP executables should be defined in your PATH. Open command prompt and type `pip --version`. This should display the version of the PIP Dependency Manager installed if your installation was successful and the paths are properly defined.

* Using command line, navigate to the directory containing the generated files (including `requirements.txt`) for the SDK.
* Run the command `pip install -r requirements.txt`. This should install all the required dependencies.

![Building SDK - Step 1](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&step=installDependencies)


### Development

The following section explains how to use the cookiesapi library in a new project.

#### 1. Open Project in an IDE

Open up a Python IDE like PyCharm. The basic workflow presented here is also applicable if you prefer using a different editor or IDE.

![Open project in PyCharm - Step 1](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&step=pyCharm)

Click on `Open` in PyCharm to browse to your generated SDK directory and then click `OK`.

![Open project in PyCharm - Step 2](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&step=openProject0)

The project files will be displayed in the side bar as follows:

![Open project in PyCharm - Step 3](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&step=openProject1)

#### 2. Add a new Test Project

Create a new directory by right clicking on the solution name as shown below:

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 1](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&step=createDirectory)

Name the directory as "test".

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 2](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&step=nameDirectory)

Add a python file to this project.

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 3](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&step=createFile)

Name it "testSDK".

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 4](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&step=nameFile)

In your python file you will be required to import the generated python library using the following code lines

```python
from cookiesapi.cookiesapi_client import CookiesapiClient
```

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 5](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&libraryName=cookiesapi.cookiesapi_client&className=CookiesapiClient&step=projectFiles)

After this you can write code to instantiate an API client object, get a controller object and  make API calls. Sample code is given in the subsequent sections.

#### 3. Run the Test Project

To run the file within your test project, right click on your Python file inside your Test project and click on `Run`

![Run Test Project - Step 1](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&libraryName=cookiesapi.cookiesapi_client&className=CookiesapiClient&step=runProject)

### Test the SDK

You can test the generated SDK and the server with test cases. `unittest` is used as the testing framework and `nose` is used as the test runner. You can run the tests as follows:

Navigate to the root directory of the SDK and run the following commands

```
pip install -r test-requirements.txt
nosetests
```


---

🍪 Copyright © Cookies Creative Consulting & Promotions, Inc.

This repository contains private computer source code owned by Cookies (heretofore Cookies Creative Consulting & Promotions, a California Company). Use of this code in source or object form requires prior written permission from a duly-authorized member of Cookies Engineering. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Makefile tweaks, runnable CLI tool
- [x] Runnable entrypoint
- [x] Basic `click` CLI interface
- [x] Bazel support in Makefile

.github/tpl/README.md, after:


# Cookies SDK for Python  ![beta](https://img.shields.io/badge/-beta-blue) <br /> [![Build status](https://badge.buildkite.com/d95aacf67662839a273fd1e9f0bb36f38662cbff92168b6d33.svg)](https://buildkite.com/cookies/python-sdk-python) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/CookiesCo/sdk-python/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=sWIoyB4Ymc)](https://codecov.io/gh/CookiesCo/sdk-python) [![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=CookiesCo_sdk-python&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=CookiesCo_sdk-python) [![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=CookiesCo_sdk-python&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=CookiesCo_sdk-python) [![Reliability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=CookiesCo_sdk-python&metric=reliability_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=CookiesCo_sdk-python) [![Security Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=CookiesCo_sdk-python&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=CookiesCo_sdk-python)

- Library Version: `{VERSION}` (`beta`)
- API Version: `v1` (`stable`)

This repository defines an API client for easy access to [Cookies](https://cookies.co) APIs from Python.

## Installation

From your favorite command line:

```
  pip install cookiesapi
```

## Docs

Guides, access docs, and other resources can be found at the [_Cookies API Console_](https://go.cookies.co/apis). Check there first if you can't find what you're after.

- **API Reference**
  - [Brands](https://py.cookies.dev/controllers/brands)
  - [Stores](https://py.cookies.dev/controllers/stores)
  - [Strains](https://py.cookies.dev/controllers/strains)

- **Class Reference**
  - [API Client](https://py.cookies.dev/client): Info about the main API client facade.
  - [HTTP Request](https://py.cookies.dev/http-request): HTTP request object.
  - [HTTP Response](https://py.cookies.dev/http-response): HTTP response object.
  - [Utility classes](https://py.cookies.dev/utility-classes): General utilities

- **Devops Reports**
  - [Coverage Report](https://py.cookies.dev/docs/reports/coverage)


## Using the Docker image

Docker images are made available where you can interactively play with the SDK:

- GitHub: `gchr.io/cookiesco/sdk-python`
- Google: `us-docker.pkg.dev/cookies-eng/public/sdk/python`

The image is set up with an entrypoint which drops you into an interactive session:

```
➜  docker run --rm -it ghcr.io/cookiesco/sdk-python

Cookies Python SDK Tool (v{VERSION})
-----------------------------
This tool helps start up local proxy services which help Cookies Engineering team members while they're working on
stuff that requires secure API access. To use the tool, simply invoke from Docker.

>>> import cookiesapi
>>> print(".".join(cookiesapi.__version__))
{VERSION}
```


### Initialize the API Client

**_Note:_** Documentation for the client can be found [here.](/doc/client.md)

The following parameters are configurable for the API Client:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|  --- | --- | --- |
| `apikey` | `string` | Consumer API key issued by Cookies. |
| `environment` | Environment | The API environment. <br> **Default: `Environment.SANDBOX`** |
| `timeout` | `float` | The value to use for connection timeout. <br> **Default: 60** |
| `max_retries` | `int` | The number of times to retry an endpoint call if it fails. <br> **Default: 0** |
| `backoff_factor` | `float` | A backoff factor to apply between attempts after the second try. <br> **Default: 2** |
| `retry_statuses` | `Array of int` | The http statuses on which retry is to be done. <br> **Default: [408, 413, 429, 500, 502, 503, 504, 521, 522, 524]** |
| `retry_methods` | `Array of string` | The http methods on which retry is to be done. <br> **Default: ['GET', 'PUT']** |

The API client can be initialized as follows:

```python
from cookiesapi import CookiesSDK
from cookiesapi.configuration import Environment

client = CookiesSDK(
    apikey='apikey',
    environment=Environment.SANDBOX
)
```

The API key is also settable via the _environment variable_ `COOKIES_APIKEY`. If both are made available to the SDK at runtime, the constructor parameter wins.


### Obtaining Credentials

Authorization for most Cookies APIs occurs via regular consumer API keys, which authorize the bearer to perform a broad set of operations (i.e. keys are usually API- or consumer-wide). To acquire authorized API credentials, visit the [API Console](https://go.cookies.co/dev).

Sensitive APIs are gated by allowlists and may require additional security measures such as Mutual TLS (_mTLS_), OAuth 2, or asymmetric cryptographic signatures.


### Environments

The SDK can be configured to use a different environment for making API calls. Available environments are:

#### Fields

| Name | Description |
|  --- | --- |
| production | Production data and hosting environment. |
| sandbox | **Default** Testing and development environment. |

Please switch to `production` only for production traffic. Otherwise, the two environments are identical, because they pull from a mirrored (albeit isolated) data source.


## Resources

Resources available for the Python SDK include [guides](https://go.cookies.co/apis), [reference docs](https://py.cookies.dev), and the [API Console](https://go.cookies.co/apis) which sports a full testing harness.

Cookies also supports API access from [Java](https://github.com/CookiesCo/java) or via [plain HTTP](https://go.cookies.co/apis).


## Contributing


## Building the SDK

You must have Python `3 >=3.6, <= 3.9` installed on your system to install and run this SDK. This SDK package depends on other Python packages like nose, jsonpickle etc. These dependencies are defined in the `requirements.txt` file that comes with the SDK.To resolve these dependencies, you can use the PIP Dependency manager. Install it by following steps at [https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/).

Python and PIP executables should be defined in your PATH. Open command prompt and type `pip --version`. This should display the version of the PIP Dependency Manager installed if your installation was successful and the paths are properly defined.

* Using command line, navigate to the directory containing the generated files (including `requirements.txt`) for the SDK.
* Run the command `pip install -r requirements.txt`. This should install all the required dependencies.

![Building SDK - Step 1](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&step=installDependencies)


### Development

The following section explains how to use the cookiesapi library in a new project.

#### 1. Open Project in an IDE

Open up a Python IDE like PyCharm. The basic workflow presented here is also applicable if you prefer using a different editor or IDE.

![Open project in PyCharm - Step 1](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&step=pyCharm)

Click on `Open` in PyCharm to browse to your generated SDK directory and then click `OK`.

![Open project in PyCharm - Step 2](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&step=openProject0)

The project files will be displayed in the side bar as follows:

![Open project in PyCharm - Step 3](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&step=openProject1)

#### 2. Add a new Test Project

Create a new directory by right clicking on the solution name as shown below:

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 1](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&step=createDirectory)

Name the directory as "test".

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 2](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&step=nameDirectory)

Add a python file to this project.

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 3](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&step=createFile)

Name it "testSDK".

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 4](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&step=nameFile)

In your python file you will be required to import the generated python library using the following code lines

```python
from cookiesapi.cookiesapi_client import CookiesapiClient
```

![Add a new project in PyCharm - Step 5](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&libraryName=cookiesapi.cookiesapi_client&className=CookiesapiClient&step=projectFiles)

After this you can write code to instantiate an API client object, get a controller object and  make API calls. Sample code is given in the subsequent sections.

#### 3. Run the Test Project

To run the file within your test project, right click on your Python file inside your Test project and click on `Run`

![Run Test Project - Step 1](https://apidocs.io/illustration/python?workspaceFolder=Cookiesapi-Python&projectName=cookiesapi&libraryName=cookiesapi.cookiesapi_client&className=CookiesapiClient&step=runProject)

### Test the SDK

You can test the generated SDK and the server with test cases. `unittest` is used as the testing framework and `nose` is used as the test runner. You can run the tests as follows:

Navigate to the root directory of the SDK and run the following commands

```
pip install -r test-requirements.txt
nosetests
```


---

🍪 Copyright © Cookies Creative Consulting & Promotions, Inc.

This repository contains private computer source code owned by Cookies (heretofore Cookies Creative Consulting & Promotions, a California Company). Use of this code in source or object form requires prior written permission from a duly-authorized member of Cookies Engineering. All rights reserved.
